docs/aws.md, before:

# Create Amazon AWS S3 Bucket

## Overview
The Amazon Simple Storage Service, or simply [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/), allows data storage for public distribution, management, and tracking. This has several advantages over using private S3 bucket for data repository storage and sharing, including robust and well-supported utilities for tracking statistics and scalability. 

The MIDB Open Data Initiative hosts data on AWS via the Amazon Web Services (AWS) [Open Data Sponsorship Program](https://aws.amazon.com/opendata/open-data-sponsorship-program/). In summary, the process involves creating a fork of the AWS [open-data-registry](https://github.com/awslabs/open-data-registry) repository on Github, adding a `YAML` configuration file for your data repository to [`datasets/`](https://github.com/awslabs/open-data-registry/tree/main/datasets), and submitting a pull request (PR) for Amazon to review. Please review the open-data-registry [README](https://github.com/DCAN-Labs/open-data-registry?tab=readme-ov-file#registry-of-open-data-on-aws) and [Onboarding Handbook for Data Providers](https://assets.opendata.aws/aws-onboarding-handbook-for-data-providers-en-US.pdf) (starting at Step 5: Preparing & uploading data) for details.

## How to Create Amazon AWS S3 Bucket
### Step 1: Link to MIDB Account
To get started, please contact the Informatics Hub (see details in internal documentation [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qEC6YwhW-kik2z1EZAlhhUgNSrgH9XlweW-avR00Yls/edit?usp=sharing)) to link the impending repository to MIDB. 

You should also decide on the short name you would like to use for your repository (e.g. the short name for the Baby Open Brain (BOBs) Repository is `bobsrepository`). We recommend using the short name consistently when setting up the repository, including the YAML file name, DataLad folder name, etc. 

### Step 2: Create YAML File
A fork of the [open-data-registry](https://github.com/awslabs/open-data-registry) repository for registry of open data on AWS exists under the DCAN-Labs GitHub organization [here](https://github.com/DCAN-Labs/open-data-registry). Select **Sync fork** to make sure it is up-to-date.

Next add a new YAML file named with the short name of your repository to the `/datasets` folder (see the template README provided [here](https://github.com/awslabs/open-data-registry?tab=readme-ov-file#how-are-datasets-added-to-the-registry)). We recommend making a copy of the [BOBs Repository YAML](https://github.com/LuciMoore/open-data-registry/blob/main/datasets/bobsrepository.yaml) and updating the fields with information pertaining to the data repository you are submitting. Some additional field recommendations include:  

* Leave the attribute values for `ManagedBy` unchanged  
* Under `Resources`:  
    * Leave `Region` and `Type` unchanged  
    * For `ARN` and `Explore`, replace the string `bobsrepository` with the short name you have chosen to use for your own repository (the bucket and links don’t actually exist yet of course, but that’s ok)  
* We recommend choosing a license for your repository. This is not required, however, in which case you can just follow the README template example for this field and enter: `There are no restrictions on the use of this data`

Finally, rememeber to follow YAML formatting (see quick overview [here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/22235064)), including using quotes for string values that include special characters  **`:`, `{`, `}`, `[`, `]`, `,`, `&`, `*`, `#`, `?`, `|`, `-`, `<`, `>`, `=`, `!`, `%`, `@`, `\`** . Using quotations when they are not necessary will not cause any errors, so feel free to err on the side of caution if unsure. Additionally, formatting errors are caught during continuous integration after submitting your PR, so can easily be fixed at that point.     

*Note that you are welcome to proceed to Step 3 to submit a pull request before you are finished finalizing the YAML file. Just make sure to keep the PR in draft mode until ready for review.*

### Step 3: Create Tutorial  
Within the YAML file (under `DataAtWork` > `Tutorials`), you are required to provide a link to a “tutorial,” which for a data repository can simply be instructions on how to access and download the data. The BOBS Repository YAML currently links to the [View or Download the BOBS Repository](https://bobsrepository.readthedocs.io/en/latest/data_access/) section of the [BOBS Repository Docs page](https://bobsrepository.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), but for the initial submission for review, we created a simple markdown file on a public GitHub repository that, following the layout of the [INDI tutorial](https://fcon_1000.projects.nitrc.org/indi/s3/index.html), provided a basic explanation of the data format/organization and how to access via Cyberduck. 

### Step 4: Submit Pull Request
Submit a PR to the central repository and inform the Informatics Hub. Informatics will contact Amazon to link the repository with the MIDB account (Step 4 in the [AWS Handbook](https://assets.opendata.aws/aws-onboarding-handbook-for-data-providers-en-US.pdf)), create the S3 bucket referenced in the YAML (assuming it is available), and inform Amazon that the necessary steps to merge the PR have been completed. Once merged (this may take a few days), you will be provided with AWS credentials for read/write access to the bucket and you can proceed to upload your data! 

### Step 5: AWS Bucket Configuration
The Informatics Hub can will handle the majority of the configurations required to make the bucket publicly available, but there may be additional features you wish to employ that require access to the AWS web console. You can either request Informatics (the "root" user) to make these updates for you or ask that they add you as an [IAM user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users.html) to access the web console directly to make changes. The following are recommended configurations to ensure public accessibility and allow tracking for repository usage:

#### Enable ACLs Under Object Ownership
Though Amazon generally recommends using a bucket policy instead, our current process requires that **ACLs enabled** be checked under **Object Ownership**:

![](images/edit-object-ownership.jpg)

#### Update ACL Permissions
While AWS buckets are publicly accessible and can be downloaded using Cyberduck or a web browser (if the `index.html` file is properly configured), individual file permissions may still prevent users from accessing the repository.

To update Access Control Lists (ACLs) and allow external users to download data:

1. Go to **Permissions** tab  
2. Scroll down to **Access control list (ACL)**
3. Click **Edit** and check the **List** and **Read** boxes for: 
    - **Authenticated users groups** (anyone with an AWS account)
    - (Optional) **Everyone (public access)** if broader access is desired.  
4. Check **I understand the effects of these changes on my objects and buckets**
5. Click **Save changes**.

#### Tracking Repository Usage
In order to view statistics collected for your repository, the Informatics Hub will need to give your IAM account “Storage Lens” permissions. 

If you are interested in obtaining more detailed information, including the number of people who have viewed and/or downloaded the repository - including anonymous downloads via Cyberduck or web browser - Informatics will create a separate bucket to stash server access logs that contain more detailed information (see [Enabling Amazon S3 server access logging](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/enable-server-access-logging.html)). Note that it takes up to 48 hours to populate with logging data. 

AWS S3 Server Access Logs: If enabled, these logs capture every request made to your bucket, including GET requests (downloads).
You can analyze these logs using AWS Athena or other log-parsing tools to count download events.

## Additional Resources
[AWS Onboarding Handbook for Data Providers](https://assets.opendata.aws/aws-onboarding-handbook-for-data-providers-en-US.pdf)      
[AWS Samples](https://github.com/aws-samples/)  
[Youtube tutorial: adding your data to Registry of Open Data on AWS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5nocWdjN1DA)

Commit message:

update tracking  repo usage section

docs/aws.md, after:

# Create Amazon AWS S3 Bucket

## Overview
The Amazon Simple Storage Service, or simply [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/), allows data storage for public distribution, management, and tracking. This has several advantages over using private S3 bucket for data repository storage and sharing, including robust and well-supported utilities for tracking statistics and scalability. 

The MIDB Open Data Initiative hosts data on AWS via the Amazon Web Services (AWS) [Open Data Sponsorship Program](https://aws.amazon.com/opendata/open-data-sponsorship-program/). In summary, the process involves creating a fork of the AWS [open-data-registry](https://github.com/awslabs/open-data-registry) repository on Github, adding a `YAML` configuration file for your data repository to [`datasets/`](https://github.com/awslabs/open-data-registry/tree/main/datasets), and submitting a pull request (PR) for Amazon to review. Please review the open-data-registry [README](https://github.com/DCAN-Labs/open-data-registry?tab=readme-ov-file#registry-of-open-data-on-aws) and [Onboarding Handbook for Data Providers](https://assets.opendata.aws/aws-onboarding-handbook-for-data-providers-en-US.pdf) (starting at Step 5: Preparing & uploading data) for details.

## How to Create Amazon AWS S3 Bucket
### Step 1: Link to MIDB Account
To get started, please contact the Informatics Hub (see details in internal documentation [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qEC6YwhW-kik2z1EZAlhhUgNSrgH9XlweW-avR00Yls/edit?usp=sharing)) to link the impending repository to MIDB. 

You should also decide on the short name you would like to use for your repository (e.g. the short name for the Baby Open Brain (BOBs) Repository is `bobsrepository`). We recommend using the short name consistently when setting up the repository, including the YAML file name, DataLad folder name, etc. 

### Step 2: Create YAML File
A fork of the [open-data-registry](https://github.com/awslabs/open-data-registry) repository for registry of open data on AWS exists under the DCAN-Labs GitHub organization [here](https://github.com/DCAN-Labs/open-data-registry). Select **Sync fork** to make sure it is up-to-date.

Next add a new YAML file named with the short name of your repository to the `/datasets` folder (see the template README provided [here](https://github.com/awslabs/open-data-registry?tab=readme-ov-file#how-are-datasets-added-to-the-registry)). We recommend making a copy of the [BOBs Repository YAML](https://github.com/LuciMoore/open-data-registry/blob/main/datasets/bobsrepository.yaml) and updating the fields with information pertaining to the data repository you are submitting. Some additional field recommendations include:  

* Leave the attribute values for `ManagedBy` unchanged  
* Under `Resources`:  
    * Leave `Region` and `Type` unchanged  
    * For `ARN` and `Explore`, replace the string `bobsrepository` with the short name you have chosen to use for your own repository (the bucket and links don’t actually exist yet of course, but that’s ok)  
* We recommend choosing a license for your repository. This is not required, however, in which case you can just follow the README template example for this field and enter: `There are no restrictions on the use of this data`

Finally, rememeber to follow YAML formatting (see quick overview [here](https://stackoverflow.com/a/22235064)), including using quotes for string values that include special characters  **`:`, `{`, `}`, `[`, `]`, `,`, `&`, `*`, `#`, `?`, `|`, `-`, `<`, `>`, `=`, `!`, `%`, `@`, `\`** . Using quotations when they are not necessary will not cause any errors, so feel free to err on the side of caution if unsure. Additionally, formatting errors are caught during continuous integration after submitting your PR, so can easily be fixed at that point.     

*Note that you are welcome to proceed to Step 3 to submit a pull request before you are finished finalizing the YAML file. Just make sure to keep the PR in draft mode until ready for review.*

### Step 3: Create Tutorial  
Within the YAML file (under `DataAtWork` > `Tutorials`), you are required to provide a link to a “tutorial,” which for a data repository can simply be instructions on how to access and download the data. The BOBS Repository YAML currently links to the [View or Download the BOBS Repository](https://bobsrepository.readthedocs.io/en/latest/data_access/) section of the [BOBS Repository Docs page](https://bobsrepository.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), but for the initial submission for review, we created a simple markdown file on a public GitHub repository that, following the layout of the [INDI tutorial](https://fcon_1000.projects.nitrc.org/indi/s3/index.html), provided a basic explanation of the data format/organization and how to access via Cyberduck. 

### Step 4: Submit Pull Request
Submit a PR to the central repository and inform the Informatics Hub. Informatics will contact Amazon to link the repository with the MIDB account (Step 4 in the [AWS Handbook](https://assets.opendata.aws/aws-onboarding-handbook-for-data-providers-en-US.pdf)), create the S3 bucket referenced in the YAML (assuming it is available), and inform Amazon that the necessary steps to merge the PR have been completed. Once merged (this may take a few days), you will be provided with AWS credentials for read/write access to the bucket and you can proceed to upload your data! 

### Step 5: AWS Bucket Configuration
The Informatics Hub can will handle the majority of the configurations required to make the bucket publicly available, but there may be additional features you wish to employ that require access to the AWS web console. You can either request Informatics (the "root" user) to make these updates for you or ask that they add you as an [IAM user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users.html) to access the web console directly to make changes. The following are recommended configurations to ensure public accessibility and allow tracking for repository usage:

#### Enable ACLs Under Object Ownership
Though Amazon generally recommends using a bucket policy instead, our current process requires that **ACLs enabled** be checked under **Object Ownership**:

![](images/edit-object-ownership.jpg)

#### Update ACL Permissions
While AWS buckets are publicly accessible and can be downloaded using Cyberduck or a web browser (if the `index.html` file is properly configured), individual file permissions may still prevent users from accessing the repository.

To update Access Control Lists (ACLs) and allow external users to download data:

1. Go to **Permissions** tab  
2. Scroll down to **Access control list (ACL)**
3. Click **Edit** and check the **List** and **Read** boxes for: 
    - **Authenticated users groups** (anyone with an AWS account)
    - (Optional) **Everyone (public access)** if broader access is desired.  
4. Check **I understand the effects of these changes on my objects and buckets**
5. Click **Save changes**.

#### Tracking Repository Usage
To track the number of repository downloads, you can parse [server access logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ServerLogs.html), which provide detailed records for all requests made to a bucket. You will first need to ask the Informatics Hub to enable AWS S3 server access logging - see instructions and details under [Enabling Amazon S3 server access logging](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/enable-server-access-logging.html). Informatics will create a separate bucket to stash the logs. They will then need to update the permissions appropriately (see [Permissions for log delivery](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/enable-server-access-logging.html#grant-log-delivery-permissions-general))

Server access logging captures every request made to your bucket, including GET requests (downloads). Note that it takes up to 48 hours to populate with logging data. Once logs are available, download them locally in order to parse them.

- track # of people who view/download repo? can it also detect downloads via Cyberduck or web browser? 

## Additional Resources
[AWS Onboarding Handbook for Data Providers](https://assets.opendata.aws/aws-onboarding-handbook-for-data-providers-en-US.pdf)      
[AWS Samples](https://github.com/aws-samples/)  
[Youtube tutorial: adding your data to Registry of Open Data on AWS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5nocWdjN1DA)
